The ideology that people fit into categories is extremely small-minded and concerning. 

A stereotype is defined as a widely held but fixed and oversimplified image or idea of a particular type of person or thing, according to Merriam Webster. 

Imagine trying to force people into certain ideas in your own head, giving them no space to surprise you. There are many of these stereotypes floating around the world, and there seems to be no space for improvement or deviation.

As someone who has been subjected to multiple stereotypes, there is nothing worse than being placed in a box by another person. Before someone can even begin to comprehend who they are, they are told by the world what they’re supposed to be and what they should become.

 All of this is based off of what? 

Skin color, facial features, place of birth, gender and other features people have no control over. I am not going to reiterate the mindless constants that come up when it comes to these stereotypes. I am, however, going to allow a chance for people to grow. 

The feeling of needing to break these stereotypes also leads into the feelings of hypervisibility. I face stereotypes as an Indian such as being good in mathematics and only being either an engineer or a doctor, with little to no in between. 

Sticking to that thinking leaves no room for creativity and passion, removing all sense of purpose in life. Stuck in that thinking, I would have never known about my passion for reading fiction or writing articles. 

Changing the cycle of prejudice and stagnant thinking is something all of us can work on. A person’s physical features should not be used as a rule book for how the life they are supposed to live.

Yes, the income your family makes, access to education and belief systems are all factors that  influence life. Work ethic is also a big factor. 

There seems to be a correlation between being uneducated and small minded. This is easily explained by the fact that the people who stick to their ways refuse to have their mind expanded by new thoughts and imagination. 

Thus, it seems weird when someone at college spits out a stereotype that someone else should follow. It leads me into thinking about how well their parents’ or own money is spent. 

UVM students who continue to walk around campus carrying stereotypes with them should stop wasting their parent's money because clearly, they are learning nothing. I can think of 20 causes that deserve more money than these students.

How far of a stretch is it to think that everyone, who is born with ten toes and ten fingers, can’t do everything another human can? Oftentimes, an ignorant person would then go on to contest that point by saying, “Well, we can’t all be Thomas Edison.” 

Pulling out extremes is the defense of the weak, but is it really that far-fetched to think that between 6-8 billion people on Earth, not a single one would have had a similar train of thought as Edison did?

If everyone was treated with respect, would they be able to reach their fullest potential and create great change for the world? 

I am not the greatest statistician to ever live, but I feel like that probability should be pretty high. 

Let’s look at the very real effects of stereotypes in the world. A 2004 study sent out copies of the same resume, only differentiated by their names. Some were stereotypically African American and some were stereotypically white. 

A disproportionately large number of whites got the call backs, while many of the African American applicants were rejected, according to the study. 

 African Americans have been of a lower socioeconomic class since the colonization of this country. That might lead an employer to think that this person might not be able to do everything in the office, like behave in the proper way.  

“While one may have expected improved credentials to alleviate employers’ fear that African-American applicants are deficient in some unobservable skills, this is not the case in our data,” the study stated.

Due to the bias against African Americans in education, the same degree on the resume might be seen as less deserved, holding a lesser weight. Again, these sentiments are not held in fact. 

Stereotypes are a product of vacuum chamber media consumed by the masses. The conservative views of old that seem to still have a hold on many of us, and the biases that people have not confronted.

It’s almost considered taboo in India to have any other type of profession, at least with anyone who is going into higher education. These could be used as stereotypes that don’t harm in general. Yes, based on my stereotype, I will be rich and successful. 

Yet, there seems to be many uncharted routes, other ways to success that don’t include just the monetary gratification that comes with a job. That is where the feeling of being hypervisible, of being afraid comes into play. 

The importance of  social cues that we take from other people are almost always overlooked. Not knowing how to act in a situation, most of the time I would look towards someone older than me, like my brother or my parents. 

Imagine not having a single person look like you in school. It feels like everything you are doing is wrong, and while that feeling will go away after time, that doesn’t change the fact that there seems to be a notion of no space for error. 

I have experienced that in many spaces at UVM. How many fellow students can say they've felt the same way?

It is that fear, of making a fool of myself, of not appearing normal, that seems to be the only real struggle I face in breaking stereotypes.

 I have become so calloused to the words of others that they simply don’t matter, and thus, the only things that would affect me are the larger themes, the fear that comes along with breaking into something. 

There will always be the smaller minded people who try to negate these things and make fun of others for it. But once you understand that these jabs, these words meant to hurt come from a place of insecurity, you start to pity the people that say them.

People don’t know what they want, and if they do, they often run away from the work needed to reach their goals, whether they be monetary, spiritual, or mental. 

Accepting the negative that comes with stereotypes helps immensely. There is nothing more empowering than living the life that you want outside of your skin.

Understanding the small minded people, however undesirable, matters more than one might think. Seeing the roots of the problem, at least for me, has always helped me understand it, and in turn, neutralize its effect on me. 





