
WHITEWASHED 

I recently had the opportunity to interview a first year student that is living on campus, who identifies as Ethiopian/Eritrean American. I asked her a few questions about what the term ‘whitewashed’ meant to her and if she had ever come across the term in her experience as a black woman on campus. 

Merriam Webster Dictionary defines the word whitewashed as the following :

 “to portray (the past) in a way that increases the prominence, relevance, or impact of white people and minimizes or misrepresents that of nonwhite people.”

Being asked if she had ever been called this particular word, she responded with, “Yes. By friends, trolls on the internet, even some extended family members.  It makes me feel like shit. Like people form so many assumptions that I cannot be the person I am, based off of things that are stereotypical of my race. I feel forced into a box, and it really bothers me.”

I followed up this question with another one, asking whether it had ever caused her nervousness to approach people in her own community : 
“For me, it is definitely harder to approach a group of my own racial community, because growing up in Vermont, my tendencies reflect those of white people. I just feel like I don't know how to act. It is extremely unnerving, having doubts when I know that I belong, mostly because of the things people say to me, I feel nervous.” , and adding as an afterthought, 

“ I think I am perfect the way that  I am. There is a certain community that I wouldn’t be able to relate to, because I don’t have any shared experiences with them. It’s less being in the middle of black and white, but more being in the middle of just not being able to find people with the same experience as me.”


Further into my conversation with this student, she clarified that she would be called that term almost always after she would state a preference/opinion that could be considered “white”. She followed that up with saying how it is truly offensive for anyone to try to dictate how someone should act or what they should like, in general and based off of racial profiling. Strongly voicing this next statement, she spoke, “ I’m done educating people. I feel like its basic human decency to understand that it is not okay to say these things.” 


This interview shows a glaring gap in the education/exposure of some of the people that roam around our campus. No one is to blame, but since there is very little rhetoric on what is right and what is wrong, maybe the following can help. 

It is never okay to reduce someone to a singular opinion that is stereotypical of someone not in their racial community. 

That extends way beyond just the BIPOC communities. Understanding that every single one of us, black, brown, white, green and gold, are a product of our existing environment is extremely important.  Not every single black person you meet will fit the stereotype, and not every Muslim you meet will be like your neighbors down the street. 

Another important note is that the term ‘whitewashed’ is almost always used with a negative connotation. Rephrasing the definition, it becomes about how someone is minimally themselves, and more stereotypically white. Regardless of race, being called whitewashed makes people doubt themselves, something my interviewee and myself can personally attest to. 

The larger issue here is the prominence of microaggressions. The reason why I believe that white/ people feel targeted in the conversations that adhere to race is because they don’t seem to understand that the inherent microaggressions have been bred into them through countless generations. As much as racism might be a part of one’s life, it is a simple matter of self-reflection; to recognize where these things crop up, and understanding what is okay to say and what isn’t.  It will not, I promise you, require that much change in your daily lifestyle. It might help to think of it as such : you don’t ask a woman her age, because it is considered disrespectful. Equivalently, one should never ask questions like, “How are you so white but you’re black?”, or, “Bro, you’re whitewashed.”. As my Ethiopian friend said, it’s basic human decency. 

Race is a blanket on a bed, one that covers every aspect of one’s personality, and when it becomes a point of emphasis, removes all traces of a person’s individuality, and leaves behind only the color of their skin.  Lately, in the current climate of America, the bed has been getting hot, and the only answer is to take that blanket off, to uncover anyone and everyone’s individual personalities, which hopefully will lead to a future with reciprocated respect being an expected hand we extend to each other. 

